in one small Valley there is the stench
of death
[Music]
unwittingly the Tyrannosaurus has been
drawn into a natural trap volcanic vents
here are producing poisonous carbon
monoxide and because it is heavier than
air it has formed a suffocating layer
close to the ground the giant predator
stands above the layer but as he put his
head down to feed on one of the corpses
he begins to feel the effects of the gas
himself
if he topples over now he will never get
up eventually his sheer size is his
salvation as he stands up with his prize
his head just clears the gas layer there
are still islands of greenery between
the barren lava flows in the warm moist
climate of the late cretaceous period
the vegetation has transformed instead
of conifers broad-leaved trees fill the
forest canopy
driving this quiet revolution among the
plants is the remarkable evolution of
flowers
their secret lies in their intimate
relationship with insects this is now so
close that some flowers can only be
pollinated by insects and some insects
like the butterfly can only feed on
flowers
[Music]
and among these new plants the birds are
flourishing and their calls now form an
ever-present chorus
[Music]
millions of years of evolution have also
created intimate relationships among
different types of dinosaurs especially
the delicate balance between predator
and prey
[Music]
[Applause]
one dinosaur that specializes in defense
is the extraordinary ankylosaurus they
are evolved to withstand attack even
from giant predators like Tyrannosaurus
at seven tons ankylosaurus are so
heavily armored that even their eyelids
are hardened and if that wasn't enough
they have a formidable Club on the end
of their tails but sadly not even these
magnificent creatures have any defense
against the natural forces that are
suffocating their world